packages/hydefront/README.md, before:

# HydePHP Frontend Assets

[![jsDelivr hits (NPM)](https://data.jsdelivr.com/v1/package/npm/hydefront/badge?style=rounded)](https://www.jsdelivr.com/package/npm/hydefront)
![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/hydefront)
[![Build & Push CI](https://github.com/hydephp/hydefront/actions/workflows/node.js.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hydephp/hydefront/actions/workflows/node.js.yml)
![GitHub package.json version](https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/hydephp/hydefront)
![NPM Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/hydefront)


## About this repository

Contains the frontend assets for HydePHP.

### About the files

- **Hyde.css**:
The Hyde stylesheet contains a small set of styles that don't make sense to use with Tailwind, or that belong to generated content that is harder to modify.

Normally, this file is imported into the main.css file.

- **App.css**:
A compiled and minified file containing the TailwindCSS styles for a base Hyde installation. It includes the Hyde.css file. This file is identical to what one would get by running `npm run prod` in a new HydePHP project (which incidentally is exactly how this file is generated).


## Usage

HydeFront is included with [HydePHP](https://github.com/hydephp/hyde) by default.


## Links:

- GitHub https://github.com/hydephp/hydefront
- NPM https://www.npmjs.com/package/hydefront
- jsDelivr https://www.jsdelivr.com/package/npm/hydefront


## Warranty:

HydeFront is not intended to be used for standalone projects and comes with no warranties. Changes in HydeFront are tied to those in the Hyde Framework and differing versions may be incompatible.

Commit message:

Update HydeFront readme to include supported versions

packages/hydefront/README.md, after:

# HydePHP Frontend Assets

[![jsDelivr hits (NPM)](https://data.jsdelivr.com/v1/package/npm/hydefront/badge?style=rounded)](https://www.jsdelivr.com/package/npm/hydefront)
![NPM Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/hydefront)
[![Build & Push CI](https://github.com/hydephp/hydefront/actions/workflows/node.js.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hydephp/hydefront/actions/workflows/node.js.yml)
![GitHub package.json version](https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/hydephp/hydefront)
![NPM Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/hydefront)


## About this repository

Contains the frontend assets for HydePHP.

### About the files

- **Hyde.css**:
The Hyde stylesheet contains a small set of styles that don't make sense to use with Tailwind, or that belong to generated content that is harder to modify.

Normally, this file is imported into the main.css file.

- **App.css**:
A compiled and minified file containing the TailwindCSS styles for a base Hyde installation. It includes the Hyde.css file. This file is identical to what one would get by running `npm run prod` in a new HydePHP project (which incidentally is exactly how this file is generated).


## Usage

HydeFront is included with [HydePHP](https://github.com/hydephp/hyde) by default.


## Links:

- GitHub https://github.com/hydephp/hydefront
- NPM https://www.npmjs.com/package/hydefront
- jsDelivr https://www.jsdelivr.com/package/npm/hydefront


## Supported Versions & Warranty

HydeFront is not intended to be used for standalone projects and comes with no warranties.

Changes in HydeFront are tied to those in the Hyde Framework and differing versions may be incompatible.

| Hyde Version | Version | Supported          | Notes                   |
|:-------------|---------|--------------------|-------------------------|
| 1.x          | 3.x     | :white_check_mark: | Latest                  |
| 0.x Beta     | 2.x     | :x:                | Unsupported             |
| 0.x Alpha    | 1.x     | :x:                | Unsupported             |
