packages/framework/SECURITY.md, before:

# Security Policy

## Supported Versions

These are the version ranges of HydePHP, and their support status. We follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org), and you can read about our [Backwards Compatability](https://github.com/hydephp/policies/blob/master/backwards-compatability.md) promise here.

| Version | Supported          | Classification       |
|---------|--------------------|----------------------|
| 1.x     | :white_check_mark: | General Availability |
| < 0.64  | :x:                | Beta (legacy)        |
| < 0.50  | :x:                | Beta (legacy)        |
| < 0.8   | :x:                | Alpha stage          |


<!-- 
| 5.1.x   | :white_check_mark: |
| 5.0.x   | :x:                |
| 4.0.x   | :white_check_mark: |
| < 4.0   | :x:                | -->


## Reporting a Vulnerability

If you discover a security vulnerability within this package, please send an e-mail to the creator, Caen De Silva, via caen@desilva.se.

All security vulnerabilities will be promptly addressed.

Commit message:

Update Framework security reporting to match Hyde document

packages/framework/SECURITY.md, after:

# Security Policy

## Supported Versions

These are the version ranges of HydePHP, and their support status. We follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org), and you can read about our [Backwards Compatability](https://github.com/hydephp/policies/blob/master/backwards-compatability.md) promise here.

| Version | Supported          | Classification       |
|---------|--------------------|----------------------|
| 1.x     | :white_check_mark: | General Availability |
| < 0.64  | :x:                | Beta (legacy)        |
| < 0.50  | :x:                | Beta (legacy)        |
| < 0.8   | :x:                | Alpha stage          |


<!-- 
| 5.1.x   | :white_check_mark: |
| 5.0.x   | :x:                |
| 4.0.x   | :white_check_mark: |
| < 4.0   | :x:                | -->


## Reporting a Vulnerability

If you discover a security vulnerability within this package, please send an e-mail to the creator, Caen De Silva, via caen@desilva.se.
You can also report a vulnerability through GitHub on the [Security Advisory](https://github.com/hydephp/develop/security/advisories) page.

All security vulnerabilities will be promptly addressed.
