docs/digging-deeper/helpers.md, before:

---
navigation:
    priority: 35
    label: "Helpers and Utilities"
---

# Helpers and Utilities

## Introduction

HydePHP comes with a few helper classes and utilities to make your life easier. This page will cover some of the most important ones.

### File-based Collections

Hyde provides `DataCollections`, a subset of [Laravel Collections](https://laravel.com/docs/10.x/collections) giving you a similar developer experience to working with Eloquent Collections. However, instead of accessing a database,
it's all entirely file-based using static data files such as Markdown, Yaml, and JSON files which get parsed into objects that you can easily work with.

```php
use Hyde\Support\DataCollections;

// Gets all Markdown files in resources/collections/$name directory
DataCollections::markdown(string $name);

// Gets all YAML files in resources/collections/$name directory
DataCollections::yaml(string $name);

// Gets all JSON files in resources/collections/$name directory
DataCollections::json(string $name, bool $asArray = false);
```

See the [File-based Collections](collections) documentation for more information.

### File Includes

The Includes facade provides a simple way to access partials in the includes directory.

If the file does not exist, the method will return `null`.
You can also supply a default value as the second argument.
Both Markdown and Blade includes will be rendered to HTML.

#### Using Includes

Includes are stored in the `resources/includes` directory. You can access them using the `Includes` facade.

```php
use Hyde\Support\Includes;

Includes::get('example.md');
Includes::get('example.md', 'Default content');
```

#### Markdown Includes

Gets the rendered Markdown of a partial file in the includes directory.
When using this method, supplying the file extension is optional.

```php
use Hyde\Support\Includes;

Includes::markdown('footer');
Includes::markdown('footer.md');

// With default value if the file does not exist
Includes::markdown('footer', 'Default content');
```

#### Blade Includes

Gets the rendered Blade of a partial file in the includes directory.
When using this method, supplying the file extension is optional.

```php
use Hyde\Support\Includes;

Includes::blade('banner');
Includes::blade('banner.blade.php');

// With default value if the file does not exist
Includes::blade('banner', 'Default content');
```

#### Directory Structure Example

Here is an example of the directory structure for includes:

```tree
resources/
|-- includes/
|   |-- example.md
|   |-- footer.md
|   |-- banner.blade.php
```

Commit message:

Add note on target readers

docs/digging-deeper/helpers.md, after:

---
navigation:
    priority: 35
    label: "Helpers and Utilities"
---

# Helpers and Utilities

## Introduction

HydePHP comes with a few helper classes and utilities to make your life easier. This page will cover some of the most important ones.
Note that these helpers targets those who write custom code and Blade templates, and that you are expected to have a basic understanding of programming and PHP.

### File-based Collections

Hyde provides `DataCollections`, a subset of [Laravel Collections](https://laravel.com/docs/10.x/collections) giving you a similar developer experience to working with Eloquent Collections. However, instead of accessing a database,
it's all entirely file-based using static data files such as Markdown, Yaml, and JSON files which get parsed into objects that you can easily work with.

```php
use Hyde\Support\DataCollections;

// Gets all Markdown files in resources/collections/$name directory
DataCollections::markdown(string $name);

// Gets all YAML files in resources/collections/$name directory
DataCollections::yaml(string $name);

// Gets all JSON files in resources/collections/$name directory
DataCollections::json(string $name, bool $asArray = false);
```

See the [File-based Collections](collections) documentation for more information.

### File Includes

The Includes facade provides a simple way to access partials in the includes directory.

If the file does not exist, the method will return `null`.
You can also supply a default value as the second argument.
Both Markdown and Blade includes will be rendered to HTML.

#### Using Includes

Includes are stored in the `resources/includes` directory. You can access them using the `Includes` facade.

```php
use Hyde\Support\Includes;

Includes::get('example.md');
Includes::get('example.md', 'Default content');
```

#### Markdown Includes

Gets the rendered Markdown of a partial file in the includes directory.
When using this method, supplying the file extension is optional.

```php
use Hyde\Support\Includes;

Includes::markdown('footer');
Includes::markdown('footer.md');

// With default value if the file does not exist
Includes::markdown('footer', 'Default content');
```

#### Blade Includes

Gets the rendered Blade of a partial file in the includes directory.
When using this method, supplying the file extension is optional.

```php
use Hyde\Support\Includes;

Includes::blade('banner');
Includes::blade('banner.blade.php');

// With default value if the file does not exist
Includes::blade('banner', 'Default content');
```

#### Directory Structure Example

Here is an example of the directory structure for includes:

```tree
resources/
|-- includes/
|   |-- example.md
|   |-- footer.md
|   |-- banner.blade.php
```
