---
navigation:
    label: "Navigation Menus"
    priority: 30
---

# Navigation Menu & Sidebar

## Introduction

A great time-saving feature of HydePHP is the automatic navigation menu and documentation sidebar generation.
Hyde is designed to automatically configure these menus for you based on the content you have in your project.
You will likely want to customize some parts of these menus, and thankfully, Hyde makes it easy to do so.

## How navigation menus work

To better understand how to customize the navigation menus, it's beneficial to have a high level understanding of how
they are generated by HydePHP. You can of course skip this section if you prefer to just dive in to the customization.

### Discovery

The sidebar works by creating a list of all the documentation pages. If your documentation is organized in subdirectories,
those will be used to create sidebar category groups.

The main navigation menu is a bit more sophisticated and adds all the top-level Blade, Markdown, and HTML pages.
Blog posts and documentation pages are not added to the navigation menu, however, if you have an `index.md` in your
documentation source directory, a link to it will be added to the navigation menu.

As the documentation sidebar and navigation menu are based on the same logic, they share many of the same options.

### Priorities

All navigation menu items have an internal priority value that determines its order in the navigation.
A lower value means that the item will be higher up in the menu.

Hyde makes an effort to sort navigation menu items in a sensible way and thus automatically assigns some
default priorities for common use cases, for example, the index page defaults to a priority of `0`,
putting it first. The default for other pages is `999` which puts them last. You can specify an explicit
priority in the front matter, or the configuration file to override the inferred priority.

## Reordering items in the config

Reordering items in the configuration is as easy can be. 

While the syntax is the same for both the navigation menu and the sidebar, the place in which to do so differs.

To change the main navigation, use the setting `navigation.order` in the `hyde.php` config.
To change the sidebar, use the setting `docs.sidebar_order` in the `docs.php` config.

Keep in mind, that when specifying main navigation items, you should use the route key of the page.
For documentation pages, you should use the page identifier. (Learn more about route keys and page identifiers in the
[Core Concepts](core-concepts#paths-identifiers-and-route-keys) documentation)

There are two ways two do this.

The cleanest way is to use the list-style syntax.

sidebar is as easy as can be. In the `docs` config, there is an array just for this.
If a page identifier is found here it will get priority calculated according to its position in the list,
plus an offset of 500. This offset allows you to pages earlier in the list using front matter.

If a page does not exist in the list they get priority 999, which puts them last.
You can also use front matter to set a priority for a page.
The front matter value will always take precedence.

Let's see an example:

```php
// filepath: config/docs.php
// These are the default values in the config. It puts the readme.md first in order.
'sidebar_order' => [
    'readme', // This is the first entry, so it gets the priority 500 + 0
    'installation', // This gets priority 500 + 1
    'getting-started', // And this gets priority 500 + 2
    // Any other pages not listed will get priority 999
]
```

### Reordering Navigation Menu Items

As Hyde makes an effort to organize the menu items in a sensible way, your project comes preconfigured to put what it thinks are your most
important pages first. This may of course not always match what you want, so thankfully it's easy to reorder the menu items!

Simply update the `navigation.order` array in the Hyde config! The priorities set will determine the order of the menu items.
Lower values are higher in the menu, and any pages not listed will get priority 999, which puts them last.

```php
// filepath config/hyde.php
'navigation' => [
    'order' => [
        'index' => 0, // _pages/index.md (or .blade.php)
        'posts' => 10, // _pages/posts.md (or .blade.php)
        'docs/index' => 100, // _docs/index.md
    ]
]
```

## Reordering items with front matter

You can also set the priority of a page directly in the front matter. This will override any dynamically inferred or
config defined priority. While this is useful for one-offs, it can make it harder to reorder items later on.
It's up to you which method you prefer to use. This setting can be used both for the navigation menu and the sidebar.

```markdown
---
navigation:
    priority: 10
---
```

>info Tip: If you are using automatic subdirectory dropdowns, you can also set their priority in the config. Just use the directory name instead of the page identifier.

### Adding Custom Navigation Menu Links

You can easily add custom navigation menu links similar how we add Authors. Simply add a `NavItem` model to the `navigation.custom` array.

When linking to an external site, you should use the `NavItem::forLink()` method facade. The first two arguments are the
destination and label, both required. Third argument is the priority, which is optional, and defaults to 500.

```php
// filepath config/hyde.php
use Hyde\Framework\Features\Navigation\NavItem;

'navigation' => [
    'custom' => [
        NavItem::forLink('https://github.com/hydephp/hyde', 'GitHub', 200),
    ]
]
```

Simplified, this will then be rendered as follows:

```html
<a href="https://github.com/hydephp/hyde">GitHub</a>
```

### Excluding Items (Blacklist)

Sometimes, especially if you have a lot of pages, you may want to prevent links from showing up in the main navigation menu.
To remove items from being automatically added, simply add the page's route key to the blacklist.
As you can see, the `404` page has already been filled in for you.

```php
'navigation' => [
    'exclude' => [
        '404'
    ]
]
```

You can also specify that a page should be excluded by setting the page front matter.

```markdown
---
navigation:
    hidden: true
---
```

### Changing the menu item labels

Hyde makes a few attempts to find a suitable label for the navigation menu items to automatically create helpful titles.
You can override the label using the `navigation.label` front matter property.

From the Hyde config you can also override the label of navigation links using the by mapping the route key
to the desired title. Note that the front matter property will take precedence over the config property.

```php
// filepath config/hyde.php
'navigation' => [
    'labels' => [
        'index' => 'Start',
        'docs/index' => 'Documentation',
    ]
]
```
