# The HydeKernel

## Introduction

In the centre, or should I say _core_, of HydePHP is the HydeKernel. The kernel encapsulates a HydePHP project and
provides helpful methods for interacting with it. You can think of it as the heart of HydePHP, if you're a romantic.

The HydeKernel is so important that you have probably used it already. The main entry point for the HydePHP
API is the Hyde facade, which calls methods on the kernel.

```php
use Hyde\Hyde;
use Hyde\Foundation\HydeKernel;

Hyde::version(); // calls $HydeKernel->version()
```

The kernel is created very early on in the application lifecycle, in the bootstrap.php file, where it is also bound
as a singleton into the application service container.


## Accessing the kernel

The HydeKernel It is stored as a singleton in this class, and is bound into the
Laravel Application Service Container, and can be accessed in a few ways.

Commonly, you'll use the `Hyde` facade, but you can also use Dependency Injection
by type-hinting the `HydeKernel::class`, or use the `hyde()` function to get the Kernel.

The Kernel instance is constructed in bootstrap.php, and is available globally as `$hyde`.

Here are some examples of how you can call methods on the Kernel. All methods call the same method on the same instance, so it's just a matter of preference.

```php
use Hyde\Hyde;
use Hyde\Foundation\HydeKernel;

Hyde::version();
Hyde::kernel()->version();
HydeKernel::getInstance()->version();
app(HydeKernel::class)->version();
hyde()->version();
```


## The kernel lifecycle

Whenever we talk about the kernel being "booted" we are talking about the kernel's role in the autodiscovery process.

You can read all about it in the [Autodiscovery Documentation](autodiscovery).


## API Reference

<section id="hyde-kernel-base-methods">

<!-- Start generated docs for Hyde\Foundation\HydeKernel -->
<!-- Generated by HydePHP DocGen script at 2023-03-11 11:02:34 in 2.40ms -->

#### `version()`

No description provided.

```php
// torchlight! {"lineNumbers": false}
Hyde::version(): string
```

#### `__construct()`

No description provided.

```php
// torchlight! {"lineNumbers": false}
$hyde = new HydeKernel(string $basePath): void
```

#### `features()`

No description provided.

```php
// torchlight! {"lineNumbers": false}
Hyde::features(): Hyde\Facades\Features
```

#### `hasFeature()`

No description provided.

```php
// torchlight! {"lineNumbers": false}
Hyde::hasFeature(string $feature): bool
```

#### `toArray()`

Get the instance as an array.

```php
// torchlight! {"lineNumbers": false}
Hyde::toArray(): array<TKey, // TValue>
```

<!-- End generated docs for Hyde\Foundation\HydeKernel -->

</section>

