packages/testing/README.md, before:

# Testing helpers for HydePHP

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/hyde/testing.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/hyde/testing)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/hyde/testing.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/hyde/testing)

Warning: This package should only be used as a dev-dependency, and never in production.


## Installation

You can install the package via composer:

```bash
composer require hyde/testing --dev
```


## Usage

This package is created for and intended to be used specifically with HydePHP. It will likely not work with other frameworks, and such usage is discouraged.

```bash
php hyde test
```


## Contributing

Please see the [hydephp/develop](https://github.com/hydephp/develop/issues) monorepo for details.

### Security

If you discover any security related issues, please email caen@desilva.se instead of using the issue tracker.

There are no backwards compatibility guarantees other than what is implicitly offered through the HydePHP packages requiring this package.


## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Commit message:

Update testing package readme
Clarifies the internal scope of the package

packages/testing/README.md, after:

# Internal testing helpers for HydePHP

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/hyde/testing.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/hyde/testing)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/hyde/testing.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/hyde/testing)

**Warning:** This package should only be used as a dev-dependency, and never in production.

**Notice:** All code in this package is considered internal and should not be relied upon outside the HydePHP test suites.


## Installation

You can install the package via composer:

```bash
composer require hyde/testing --dev
```


## Usage

This package is created for and intended to be used specifically with HydePHP. It will likely not work with other frameworks, and such usage is discouraged.

```bash
php hyde test
```


## Contributing

Please see the [hydephp/develop](https://github.com/hydephp/develop/issues) monorepo for details.

### Security

If you discover any security related issues, please email caen@desilva.se instead of using the issue tracker.

There are no backwards compatibility guarantees other than what is implicitly offered through the HydePHP packages requiring this package.


## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.
